
# GDP per-capita prediction using ML

The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is the monetary value of all goods and services produced within a country's borders in a given year. It is commonly utilized for public and private policy planning by academics and decision makers. GDP data has a non-linear nature which exhibits subsequent increase each year for any country. Therefore, this data is a perfect choice for analyzing time series prediction models by using it as an input. Regression algorithms are one of the most widely used methods for the prediction of time series. To perform time series prediction, machine learning (ML) based regression models are used in this study. Regression algorithms predict the output values based on input features from the data fed in the system. The objective of this research is to develop a machine learning model using regression algorithms to predict the GDP of Bangladesh. In this research, four regression models have been used namely as Simple Linear Regression (SLR), Polynomial Regression (PR), Ridge Regression (RR) & Lasso Regression (LR) model. Results of these four models have been compared using the R 2 value method to determine the best performing one. In order to get the optimum value of Ridge & Lasso’s Alpha parameter, cross validation was performed using K-Fold & Grid Search CV and then the optimum value of Alpha was achieved. The result demonstrates that the fourth-degree of the PR model is more accurate than the other models such as SLR, RR and LR. So, it is evident from this research that the fourth-degree Polynomial model is a better choice to perform time series prediction for gradually increasing data with non-linear nature. By using ML algorithms for mathematical regression models, the accuracy of time series prediction might be greatly increased than any other traditional method.
